doc(frameworks): tensorflow (#2718)
bentoml/BentoML: docs/source/frameworks/tensorflow.rst

==========
TensorFlow
==========

> TensorFlow is an open source machine learning library focusing on training on inference of deep neural networks. BentoML provides native support for 
> serving and deploying models trained from TensorFlow.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
TensorFlow is an open source machine learning library focusing on deep neural networks. BentoML provides native support for 
serving and deploying models trained from TensorFlow.
```

Preface
-------

Consider using BentoML :ref:`frameworks/keras:Keras` framework if working with a Keras model. If continuing with TensorFlow, make sure the Keras model 
is decorated with :code:`tf.function`.

.. note::

>     - Keras is not optimized for inference in production. There are reports about memory leaks during serving. :code:`bentoml.keras` has same concerns since it rely on the the Keras APIs.

Reviewer: Can remove the next bullet point this way, I think.

```suggestion
    - Keras is not optimized for inference in production. There are `many reports <https://github.com/tensorflow/tensorflow/issues?q=is%3Aissue+sort%3Aupdated-desc+keras+memory+leak>`_ of memory leaks during serving. Use :obj:`~bentoml.tensorflow`, as it is about twice as fast.
```

    - Inference with :code:`bentoml.tensorflow` is about twice faster than :code:`bentoml.keras`.

>     - :code:`bentoml.keras` performs input casting similar to the original Keras model for better debugging experiences.

Reviewer 2: Should this be a part of the Keras guide instead?

Reviewer: Do / should we have a separate Keras guide?

Reviewer 2: Discussed with @sauyon, we think Keras doc should have a section for recommending converting Keras model to TensorFlow for better performance. In this section of the TF doc, we can advise not to use Keras in production and link to the conversion section of the Keras doc.

Author: @sauyon We have

> To improve the performance of Keras models, consider applying techniques like **model distillation** or **model quantization**. Alternatively, the Keras model can be converted to a ONNX model and saved with :code:`bentoml.onnx` to leverage better performance runtimes (for eg: TensorRT).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.. note::

    :bdg-info:`Remarks:` We recommend users apply model optimization techniques such as **distillation** or **quantization**. Alternatively, Keras models can also be converted to :ref:`ONNX <frameworks/onnx>` models and leverage different runtimes (e.g. TensorRT, Apache TVM, etc.).
```

Compatibility
-------------

BentoML requires TensorFlow version 2.0 or higher. For TensorFlow version 1.0, consider using a :ref:`concepts/runner:Custom Runner`.

Saving a Trained Model
----------------------

> `bentoml.tensorflow` supports saving models in the formats of :code:`tf.Module`, :code:`keras.models.Sequential`, or :code:`keras.Model`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
``bentoml.tensorflow`` supports saving ``tf.Module``s, ``keras.models.Sequential``s, and ``keras.Model``s.
```

        model = NativeModel()
        ... # training

        # =========

        bentoml.tensorflow.save(model, "my_tf_model")

   .. tab-item:: keras.model.Sequential

      .. code-block:: python
        :caption: `train.py`

        model = keras.models.Sequential(
            (
                keras.layers.Dense(
                    units=1,
                    input_shape=(5,),
                    dtype=tf.float64,
                    use_bias=False,
                    kernel_initializer=keras.initializers.Ones(),
                ),
            )
        )
        opt = keras.optimizers.Adam(0.002, 0.5)
        model.compile(optimizer=opt, loss="binary_crossentropy", metrics=["accuracy"])

        bentoml.tensorflow.save(model, "my_keras_model")

   .. tab-item:: keras.Model (Functional?)

      .. code-block:: python
        :caption: `train.py`
    
        x = keras.layers.Input((5,), dtype=tf.float64, name="x")
        y = keras.layers.Dense(
            6,
            name="out",
            kernel_initializer=keras.initializers.Ones(),
        )(x)
        model = keras.Model(inputs=x, outputs=y)

        bentoml.tensorflow.save(model, "my_keras_model")

> :code:`bentoml.tensorflow` supports saving models with multiple tensors as input.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
``bentoml.tensorflow`` also supports saving models that take multiple tensors as input:
```

.. code-block:: python
    :caption: `train.py`

   class MultiInputModel(tf.Module):
        def __init__(self):
            ...

        @tf.function(
            input_signature=[
                tf.TensorSpec(shape=[1, 5], dtype=tf.float64, name="x1"),
                tf.TensorSpec(shape=[1, 5], dtype=tf.float64, name="x2"),
                tf.TensorSpec(shape=(), dtype=tf.float64, name="factor"),
            ]
        )
        def __call__(self, x1: tf.Tensor, x2: tf.Tensor, factor: tf.Tensor):
            ...

    model = MultiInputModel()
    ... # training

    bentoml.tensorflow.save(model, "my_tf_model")

.. note::

>     :code:`bentoml.tensorflow.save_model` has two parameters :code:`tf_signature` and :code:`signatures`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    :code:`bentoml.tensorflow.save_model` has two parameters: ``tf_signature`` and ``signatures``.
```

>     They are important when you want to save a model with a ensured behavior.
>     :code:`tf_signature`, inspired by :code:`tensorflow.saved_model.save`, is a dict of tensor names and their shapes. 
>     You may find more details about it on the :code:`tensorflow.saved_model.save` documentation.
>     The :code:`signatures` is a dict of functions names and some other information.
>     If you know your model has a dynamic batch dimension, you can use `signatures` to tell
>     bentoml about that for possible future optimizations like this:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    To ensure the Tensorflow model signature are consistent between loading in a Python session and loading from the BentoML model store, the implementation are as follow:
    - `tf_signature` is an alias to `tf.saved_model.save <https://www.tensorflow.org/api_docs/python/tf/saved_model/save>`_ *signatures* field. This optional signatures controls which methods in a given `obj <https://github.com/tensorflow/tensorflow/blob/master/tensorflow/python/trackable/base.py#L281>`_ will be available to programs that consume `SavedModel's <https://www.tensorflow.org/guide/saved_model>`_, for example, serving APIs. Read more about Tensorflow's signatures behaviour `from their API documentation <https://www.tensorflow.org/api_docs/python/tf/saved_model/save>`_.
    - ``signatures`` refers to a general :ref:`Model Signatures <concepts/model:Model Signatures>`_ that dictates which methods can be used for inference in the Runner context. This signature dictionary will be used during the creation process of a Runner instance.

The default signature for creating a Runner is ``{"__call__": {"batchable": False}}``. The means by default, BentoML’s `Adaptive Batching <guides/batching:Adaptive Batching>`_ is disabled when using :obj:`~bentoml.tensorflow.save_model()`. If you want to utilize adaptive batching behaviour and know your model's dynamic batching dimension, make sure to pass in ``signatures`` as follow: 

```

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    Use the following arguments to define the model signatures signatures ensure consistent model behaviors in a Python session and from the BentoML model store.
    - `tf_signatures` is an alias to `tf.saved_model.save <https://www.tensorflow.org/api_docs/python/tf/saved_model/save>`_ *signatures* field. This optional signatures controls which methods in a given `obj <https://github.com/tensorflow/tensorflow/blob/master/tensorflow/python/trackable/base.py#L281>`_ will be available to programs that consume `SavedModel's <https://www.tensorflow.org/guide/saved_model>`_, for example, serving APIs. Read more about TensorFlow's signatures behavior `from their API documentation <https://www.tensorflow.org/api_docs/python/tf/saved_model/save>`_.
    - ``signatures`` refers to a general :ref:`Model Signatures <concepts/model:Model Signatures>`_ that dictates which methods can be used for inference in the Runner context. This signatures dictionary will be used during the creation process of a Runner instance.

The signatures used for creating a Runner is ``{"__call__": {"batchable": False}}``. This means by default, BentoML’s `Adaptive Batching <guides/batching:Adaptive Batching>`_ is disabled when using :obj:`~bentoml.tensorflow.save_model()`. If you want to utilize adaptive batching behavior and know your model's dynamic batching dimension, make sure to pass in ``signatures`` as follow: 

```

        model.fit(train_x, train_y, epochs=10)

        bentoml.tensorflow.save(
            model,
            "my_keras_model",
            signatures={"__call__": {"batchable": True, "batchdim": 0}}
        )

``bentoml.tensorflow`` also supports saving models that take multiple tensors as input:

.. code-block:: python
    :caption: `train.py`

   class MultiInputModel(tf.Module):
        def __init__(self):
            ...

        @tf.function(
            input_signature=[
                tf.TensorSpec(shape=[None, 5], dtype=tf.float64, name="x1"),
                tf.TensorSpec(shape=[None, 5], dtype=tf.float64, name="x2"),
                tf.TensorSpec(shape=(), dtype=tf.float64, name="factor"),
            ]
        )
        def __call__(self, x1: tf.Tensor, x2: tf.Tensor, factor: tf.Tensor):
            ...

    model = MultiInputModel()
    ... # training

    bentoml.tensorflow.save(
        model,
        "my_tf_model",
        signatures={"__call__": {"batchable": True, "batchdim": 0}}
    )

.. note::

    :obj:`~bentoml.tensorflow.save_model` has two parameters: ``tf_signature`` and ``signatures``.

>     Use the following arguments to define the model signatures signatures ensure consistent model behaviors in a Python session and from the BentoML model store.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    Use the following arguments to define the model signatures to ensure consistent model behaviors in a Python session and from the BentoML model store.
```

.. code-block:: python

    bentoml.tensorflow.save(model, "my_model", signatures={"__call__": {"batch_dim": 0, "batchable": True}})

Building a Service
------------------

Create a BentoML service with the previously saved `my_tf_model` pipeline using the :obj:`~bentoml.tensorflow` framework APIs.

.. code-block:: python
    :caption: `service.py`

    runner = bentoml.tensorflow.get("my_tf_model").to_runner()

    svc = bentoml.Service(name="test_service", runners=[runner])

    @svc.api(input=JSON(), output=JSON())
    async def predict(json_obj: JSONSerializable) -> JSONSerializable:
        batch_ret = await runner.async_run([json_obj])
        return batch_ret[0]

.. note::

    Follow the steps to get the best performance out of your TensorFlow model.
    #. Save the model with well-defined :obj:`~tf.function` decorator.
    #. Apply adaptive batching if possible.
    #. Serve on GPUs if applicable.
    #. See performance guide from [TensorFlow Doc]

Adaptive Batching
-----------------

> Most TensorFlow models can accept batched data as input. If batched interence is supported, it is recommended to enable batching to take advantage of 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Most TensorFlow models can accept batched data as input. If batch inference is supported, it is recommended to enable batching to take advantage of 
```

  * inference with bentoml.tensorflow is about 2x faster than bentoml.keras while being correctly decorated with tf.function
  * bentoml.keras would do input casting just like the original keras model object. Which means using it is more convinient in debuging. No need to `

Compatibility
-------------

bentoml.tensorflow requires Tensorflow v2.0 or higher.

Step 1: Saving a trained model
------------------------------

`bentoml.tensorflow` supports saving a model in the following format:

.. tab-set::

   .. tab-item:: tf.Module

      .. code-block:: python

        # models created from the tf native API

        class NativeModel(tf.Module):
            def __init__(self):
                super().__init__()
                self.weights = np.asfarray([[1.0], [1.0], [1.0], [1.0], [1.0]])
                self.dense = lambda inputs: tf.matmul(inputs, self.weights)

            @tf.function(
                input_signature=[
                    tf.TensorSpec(shape=[None, 5], dtype=tf.float64, name="inputs")
                ]
            )
            def __call__(self, inputs):
                return self.dense(inputs)

        model = NativeModel()
        ... # training

>         # =========

Reviewer 2: Can we add some bare minimum training logic so user can run the example.

        bentoml.tensorflow.save(model, "my_keras_model")

   .. tab-item:: keras Functional

      .. code-block:: python
    
        x = keras.layers.Input((5,), dtype=tf.float64, name="x")
        y = keras.layers.Dense(
            6,
            name="out",
            kernel_initializer=keras.initializers.Ones(),
        )(x)
        model = keras.Model(inputs=x, outputs=y)

        bentoml.tensorflow.save(model, "my_keras_model")

Sometime a model may take multiple tensors as input

.. code-block:: python

   class MultiInputModel(tf.Module):
        def __init__(self):
            ...

        @tf.function(
            input_signature=[
                tf.TensorSpec(shape=[1, 5], dtype=tf.float64, name="x1"),
                tf.TensorSpec(shape=[1, 5], dtype=tf.float64, name="x2"),
                tf.TensorSpec(shape=(), dtype=tf.float64, name="factor"),
            ]
        )
        def __call__(self, x1: tf.Tensor, x2: tf.Tensor, factor: tf.Tensor):
            ...

    model = MultiInputModel()
    ... # training

    bentoml.tensorflow.save(model, "my_tf_model")

.. seealso::
   `bentoml.tensorflow.save`_ has two parameters `tf_signature` and `signatures`.

>    They are important when you want to save a model with a ensured behavior.

Reviewer 2: > They are important when you want to save a model with a ensured behavior.

Could you please elaborate on what this means?

   The `tf_signature` is a dict of tensor names and their shapes, which adaopted from
   the signature of tensorflow.saved_model.save. You may find more details about it
   on the `tensorflow.saved_model.save`_ documentation.
   The `signatures` is a dict of functions names and some other information.
   If you know your model has a dynamic batch dimension, you can use `signatures` to tell
   bentoml about that for possible future optimizations like this:

>    bentoml.tensorflow.save(model, "my_model", signatures={"__call__": {"batch_dim": 0, "batchable": True}})

Reviewer 2: Should `tf_signature` and `signatures` arguments be mutually exclusive? Let's also link the TF documentation here.

Step 2: Create & test a Runner
------------------------------

.. code-block:: python

    runner = bentoml.tensorflow.get("my_tf_model").to_runner()

    runner.init_local()  # only for testing, do not call this in a bento service definition
    runner.__call__.run(input_data)
    # the same as:

>     # runner.run(input_data)

Reviewer 2: I think this step is unnecessary as it is neither needed to build a service nor specific to TensorFlow.

We may modify our code from

.. code-block:: python

    class NativeModel(tf.Module):
        @tf.function(
            input_signature=[
                tf.TensorSpec(shape=[1, 5], dtype=tf.int64, name="inputs")
            ]
        )
        def __call__(self, inputs):
            ...

    model = NativeModel()
    bentoml.tensorflow.save(model, "test_model")  # the default signature is `{"__call__": {"batchable": False}}`

    runner.run([[1,2,3,4,5]])  # -> bentoml will always call `model([[1,2,3,4,5]])`

to

.. code-block:: python

    class NativeModel(tf.Module):

        @tf.function(
            input_signature=[
                tf.TensorSpec(shape=[None, 5], dtype=tf.float64, name="inputs")
            ]
        )
        def __call__(self, inputs):
            ...

    model = NativeModel()
    bentoml.tensorflow.save(
        model,
        "test_model",
        signatures={"__call__": {"batchable": True, "batchdim": 0}},
    )

    #client 1
    runner.run([[1,2,3,4,5]])

    #client 2
    runner.run([[6,7,8,9,0]])

    # if multiple requests from different clients arrived at the same time,

>     # bentoml will automatically merge them and call model([[1,2,3,4,5], [6,7,8,9,0]])

Reviewer 2: This section may not be needed if we link the adaptive batching documentation.
